feat: added translation contribution guide (#1393)
tauri-apps/tauri-docs: .github/TRANSLATING.md

# Translations (i18n)

Thanks for your interest in helping to translate the documents! While we plan to support translations in the future, **we are not currently accepting them until Tauri 2.0 is a bit more stable**.

Once translations are enabled you can check the [translation status page](https://beta.tauri.app/contribute/translate-status).

To ensure the translation is consistent across multiple contributions, be sure to [communicate with others contributors in the `#docs` channel on Discord](https://discord.com/invite/tauri) and consult with reliable external resources such as [Microsoft terminology search](https://msit.powerbi.com/view?r=eyJrIjoiODJmYjU4Y2YtM2M0ZC00YzYxLWE1YTktNzFjYmYxNTAxNjQ0IiwidCI6IjcyZjk4OGJmLTg2ZjEtNDFhZi05MWFiLTJkN2NkMDExZGI0NyIsImMiOjV9) during translation.

### Enabling a Language

> If you seek to contribute but find your language missing, please open an issue.

Reviewer: Maybe we could add a checklist for maintainers here?

- Update https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri-docs/blob/next/locales.json
- Update https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri-docs/blob/next/.github/labeler.yml

Those are the two I know of off the top of my head, but might be more we catch when we enable a lang

### Starting a Translation

Before you start working on a translation, look through the [open pull requests](https://beta.tauri.app/contribute/translate-status#needs-review) to see if anyone else is already working on one for your language.

If none spotted, then now is time for you to lead the effort! So here's how to start:

1. Head to [translation status page](https://beta.tauri.app/contribute/translate-status).

> 2. Look for missing translation in corresponding languages.

Reviewer: I'd also add a point to check the review section to make sure someone else isn't already working on that page

> 3. Hit `Create page +` which will help you automagically fork the repository and create the corresponding page.

Reviewer: Maybe we could say "you may want to copy the contents of the English page as a starting point" or something just to be a bit more explicit? It'd be cool if there were a way for GitHub to do that automatically through that Create page button but don't think there is.

Author: Technically there is, same as what the current "create page +" does with the GET method:

`https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri-docs/new/next/src/content/docs?filename=fr%2F2%2Fguide%2Findex.mdx&value=---%0Atitle%3A%0Adescription%3A%0A---%0A`

We can stuff whatever we want in that `value`, but it'll also mean some absurdly long string concatenated there which even if it works looks extremely ugly.

Let's just copy and paste for now.

Reviewer: yeah, agree with you. Let's keep it simple for now to get it out the door.

# Translations (i18n)

> Thanks for your interest in helping to translate the documents! While we plan to support translations in the future, **we are not currently accepting them until Tauri 2.0 is a bit more stable**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thanks for your interest in helping translate the Tauri docs! While we plan to accept translations in the future, **we are not currently accepting them until Tauri 2.0 is a bit more stable**.
```

Once translations are enabled you can check the [translation status page](https://beta.tauri.app/contribute/translate-status).

> To ensure the translation is consistent across multiple contributions, be sure to [communicate with others contributors in the `#docs` channel on Discord](https://discord.com/invite/tauri) and consult with reliable external resources such as [Microsoft terminology search](https://msit.powerbi.com/view?r=eyJrIjoiODJmYjU4Y2YtM2M0ZC00YzYxLWE1YTktNzFjYmYxNTAxNjQ0IiwidCI6IjcyZjk4OGJmLTg2ZjEtNDFhZi05MWFiLTJkN2NkMDExZGI0NyIsImMiOjV9) during translation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure a translation is consistent across multiple contributions, be sure to [communicate with others contributors in the `#docs` channel on Discord](https://discord.com/invite/tauri) and consult with reliable external resources such as [Microsoft terminology search](https://msit.powerbi.com/view?r=eyJrIjoiODJmYjU4Y2YtM2M0ZC00YzYxLWE1YTktNzFjYmYxNTAxNjQ0IiwidCI6IjcyZjk4OGJmLTg2ZjEtNDFhZi05MWFiLTJkN2NkMDExZGI0NyIsImMiOjV9) during translation.
```

## Enabling a Language

If you seek to contribute but find your language missing, please open an issue.

### Maintainer Checklist for Adding New Languages

- Update https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri-docs/blob/next/locales.json
- Update https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri-docs/blob/next/.github/labeler.yml

## Starting a Translation

> Before you start working on a translation, look through the [open pull requests](https://beta.tauri.app/contribute/translate-status#needs-review) to see if anyone else is already working on the page for your language.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you start working on a translation, look through the [open pull requests](https://beta.tauri.app/contribute/translate-status#needs-review) to see if anyone else is already working on the page for that language.
```

> If none spotted, then now is time for you to lead the effort! So here's how to start:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If that page isn't in the list, then now it's time for you to lead the effort! So here's how to start:
```

1. Head to [translation status page](https://beta.tauri.app/contribute/translate-status).
2. Look for missing translation in corresponding languages.
3. Make sure no one else has been working on the corresponding page.

> 4. Hit `Create page +` which will help you automagically fork the repository and create the corresponding page. You might want to copy the contents of English page as a starting point.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Click `Create page +` which will help you automagically fork the repository and create the corresponding page. You might want to copy the contents of English page as a starting point.
```

> 5. Translate the page following [translator guidelines](#translation-guidelines).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Translate the page following the [translation guidelines](#translation-guidelines).
```

6. Once your translation is done, initiate a pull request.

> Note that you may send send a pull request before your translation is complete: e.g., you may want to ask for help with translations or simply letting others know that you're already translating a specific page. However, your pull request will not be merged until the translation is complete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that you may submit a draft pull request before your translation is complete: e.g., you may want to ask for help with translations or simply indicate to others that you're already translating a specific page. However, your pull request will not be merged until the translation is complete.
```

## Updating a Translation

### Corrections

If you notice spelling or grammar errors, typos, or opportunities for better phrasing, open a pull request with your suggested fix. If you see a problem that you aren't sure of or don't have time to fix, open an issue.

### Broken Links

> When broken links are found, try to fix them across all translations. Ideally, only update the linked URLs, so that translation changes will definitely not be necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When broken links are found, try to fix them across all translations. Ideally, only update the linked URLs, so that translation review will not be necessary.
```

## Translation Guidelines

Here are some guidelines to help with the translation.

**Markdown Formatting**

- [ ] Preserve the Markdown formatting. This includes headers (#, ##, etc.), lists (*, -, 1.), and inline styles like bold, italic, and code.
- [ ] Ensure that links ([link text](URL)) remain functional and direct to the correct locations.
- [ ] Ensure code blocks (triple backticks ```) are unchanged in terms of their syntax and content.

> - [ ] Double-check tables, making sure their structure remains intact.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] Double-check tables, making sure their structure remains intact. Using the Prettier formatter is a great way to do this.
```

**Terminology**

> - [ ] Familiarize yourself with key Tauri terms and ensure they're translated consistently.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] Familiarize yourself with key Tauri terms and ensure they're translated consistently. It may be helpful to look at other, already translated pages as a reference.
```

**Link Descriptions**

- [ ] If link descriptions (text that appears when you hover over a link) are present, make sure to translate them, but ensure they still describe the link's destination correctly.

**Consistency**

- [ ] Ensure that the terminology and style are consistent throughout the document.
- [ ] If the document refers to other sections within itself, double-check that these references are accurate post-translation.

**Cultural Considerations**

- [ ] Ensure that examples, metaphors, or idioms are culturally relevant or adapt them so that they are.
- [ ] Avoid terms or examples that might be considered offensive or inappropriate in the target language or culture.

**Images and Alt Text**

- [ ] If the document contains images with text, consider whether the text in the image needs to be translated.
- [ ] Translate the alt text (a description of the image for accessibility purposes) for each image.

**Feedback**

- [ ] If there are parts of the original document that are unclear or might be misunderstood, communicate with the original author or a knowledgeable person to seek clarity.

> 
> Remember, the main goal of the translation is to make the content as accessible and clear to the new audience as it was to the original audience. Always prioritize clarity and accuracy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Remember, the main goal of the translation is to make the content as accessible and clear to the new audience as it was to the original audience. Always prioritize clarity and accuracy.

Thank you for your interest in contributing; we're excited to have you! Reach out on the [`#docs` channel on Discord](https://discord.com/invite/tauri) if you have any questions along the way.
```
